.\" Man page for sos-schema
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "20 July 2023" "v6" "sos-schema man page"

.SH NAME
sos-schema \- Manage SOS Schema

.SH SYNOPSIS
sos-schema [OPTION...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBsos-schema\fR command is used to manage SOS schema. Schema
define the format of objects in a container. This format includes the
attributes in the object that will be indexed.
.PP
A schema is defined outside the container as a text file called a
\fBtemplate\fR. The \fBtemplate\fR file is JSON dictionary, for example:
.RS 4
.nf
{
  "name": \fIschema-name-string\fR,
  "uuid": \fIuuid-string\fR
  "attrs": [
    {
      "name": \fIattribute-name\fR,
      "type": \fIattribute-type\fR,
    },
    . . .
    {
      "name": \fIjoin-attr-name\fR,
      "type": "JOIN",
      "index": {},
      "join_attrs": [
        \fIattr-name\fR,
        \fIattr-name\fR,
        \fI. . .\fR
      ]
    }
  ]
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the template above, the last attribute is called a \fIJOIN\fR. A
\fIJOIN\fR attribute occupies no space in the object, but allows a
collection of attributes to be used as a key in an index.
.PP
The \fIUUID\fR is a Universally Unique ID computed using
\fBlibuuid\fR. The attribute names, types, and indices are used to
compute this value.
.PP
A template may also contain multiple schema definitions.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{
  "schemas" : [
    { \fIschema-dictionary\fR },
    { \fIschema-dictionary\fR },
    . . .
  ]
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB--path PATH\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPATH\fR to the container.
.IP "\fB--query\fR" 1c
Query the schema defined in the container. Use with the --verbose
option to provide detail information for each schema.
.IP "\fB--add PATH\fR" 1c
Adds a single schema defined in the \fItemplate\fI file \fIPATH\fR to the container.
.IP "\fB--export PATH\fR" 1c
Export all schema defined in the container to a multi-schema
\fItemplate\fR file at \fBPATH\fR.
.IP "\fB--import PATH\fR" 1c
Add all schema defined in multi-schema \fItemplate\fR file at
\fBPATH\fR to the container.
.IP "\fB--verbase\fR" 1c
When querying schema provide detail information of the schema
contents. Absent this option, only the schema name are printed.
.IP "\fB--schema NAME\fR" 1c
Used with the --query option to print information only for the schema \fINAME\fR.
.IP "\fB--uuid UUID\fR" 1c
Used with the --query option to print information only for the schema
with the Universally Unique ID \fIUUID\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Query Schema"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --query
12354914-a519-48ea-a410-d2e86ca5dc4b        0 vmstat
d2641326-77a2-48cf-99d3-83a37dbdf65e        0 meminfo
3ac614f6-ec43-4498-8bc6-b5c58a7e1f0d        0 lustre_client
. . .
.fi
.RE
.PP
In this example, the first column is the \fIUUID\fR, the second is the
schema \fIgeneration\fR number, and the third is the schema name. The
\fIgeneration\fR number is incremented whenever indices are added to
or removed from the schema. See the \fBsos-index\fR command for
information on how indices can be added and removed.
.PP
.SS "Query Verbose"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --query --verbose --schema meminfo
d2641326-77a2-48cf-99d3-83a37dbdf65e        0 meminfo
Id   Type                     Indexed      Name                            
---- ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------
   0 TIMESTAMP                             timestamp
   1 UINT64                                component_id
   2 UINT64                                job_id
   3 UINT64                                app_id
   4 UINT64                                MemTotal
   5 UINT64                                MemFree
   . . .
  51 JOIN                                  time_job_comp [timestamp+job_id+component_id]
  52 JOIN                                  time_comp_job [timestamp+component_id+job_id]
  53 JOIN                                  job_comp_time [job_id+component_id+timestamp]
  54 JOIN                                  job_time_comp [job_id+timestamp+component_id]
  55 JOIN                                  comp_time_job [component_id+timestamp+job_id]
  56 JOIN                                  comp_job_time [component_id+job_id+timestamp]
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Query Verbose"
.PP
Query the details for a single schema.
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --query --verbose --schema meminfo
d2641326-77a2-48cf-99d3-83a37dbdf65e        0 meminfo
Id   Type                     Indexed      Name                            
---- ------------------------ ------------ --------------------------------
   0 TIMESTAMP                             timestamp
   1 UINT64                                component_id
   2 UINT64                                job_id
   3 UINT64                                app_id
   4 UINT64                                MemTotal
   5 UINT64                                MemFree
   . . .
  51 JOIN                                  time_job_comp [timestamp+job_id+component_id]
  52 JOIN                                  time_comp_job [timestamp+component_id+job_id]
  53 JOIN                                  job_comp_time [job_id+component_id+timestamp]
  54 JOIN                                  job_time_comp [job_id+timestamp+component_id]
  55 JOIN                                  comp_time_job [component_id+timestamp+job_id]
  56 JOIN                                  comp_job_time [component_id+job_id+timestamp]
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Add a Single Schema"
.PP
Add a single schema to the container.
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --add schema-template.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Export All Schema in a Container"
.PP
Export all schema in a container to a JSON template file. This is
useful for adding schema defined in one container to another.
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --export multi-schema-template.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Import Schema"
.PP
Import all schema defined in a JSON template file to a container.
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-schema --path database --import multi-schema-template.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SS ODS_LOG_MASK
This environment variable specifies what log messages are printed by
the SOS libraries. The value is a bit mask as follows:
.TS
box;
l l .
Value | Description
_
0     | No messages are logged
1     | \fBFatal\fR errors (i.e. the process will exit)
2     | \fBErrors\fR
4     | \fBWarnings\fR
8     | \fBInformational\fR messages
16    | \fBDebug\fR messages
255   | \fBAll\fR messages are logged
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
sos-index(8), sos-part(8), sos-monitor(8), sos-import-csv(8)
