.\" Manpage for sos-index
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "17 Mar 2023" "v6" "sos-index man page"

.SH NAME
sos-index \- Manage SOS indices

.SH SYNOPSIS
sos-index [OPTION...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBsos-index\fR command is used to query, add, remove and verify indices.
.SS Query
The -Q option will print the index name for all indices in the container.
.SS Add
The -A option will add an index for an attribute in a schema.
The index may already exist; if it does not it will be created.
.PP
Clients that share the container become aware of the new index (based on
a schema generation number), and begin adding objects to the index.
.SS Remove
The -R option will remove an index for a schema attribute. Clients that
share the container become aware of the index removal (based on
a schema generation number), and cease adding objects to the index.
.PP
The -R option does not remove the index files themselves; the index can be
added back with the -A option and will contain all objects indexed prior
to index removal.
.SS Verify
When verifying an index, if corruption is detected, the name of the partition
containing the corrupted index is printed. It is also possible to have the
underlying index library print specific consistency errors. This is enabled
with the --verbose option.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.IP "\fB-Q,--query\fR" 1c
Print the name of all indices in the container.
.IOP "\fB-A,--add\fR" 1c
Add an index to the schema specified by the -s option for the attribute specified by the -a option.
.IOP "\fB-R,--rem\fR" 1c
Remove an index from the schema specified by the -s option for the attribute specified by the -a option.
.IP "\fB-V,--verify\fR" 1c
Verify the consistency of one or more indices in a container.
This includes all index instances in all partitions attached to
the container. If the --index NAME option is specified, only the
index NAME will be verified.
.IP "\fB-p,--path PATH \fR" 1c
The \fBPATH\fR to the SOS container.
.IP "\fB-n,--index NAME \fR" 1c
The optional \fBNAME\fR of the index to verify. If not specified, all indices will
be verified.
.IP "\fB-s,--schema NAME\fR" 1c
The schema \fBNAME\fR, required with the -A and -R options.
.IP "\fB-a,--attr NAME\fR" 1c
The attribute \fBNAME\fR to index, required with the -A and -R options.
.IP "\fB-v,--verbose \fR" 1c
This option can be used with the -V option to control the level of error messages
printed when a corruption error is detected. If specified once, the partition
name containing the corrupted index is printed. If specified more than once,
both the partition name and the index specific corruption errors are printed.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Query Example"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-index --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --query
meminfo_tom_job_comp_time
meminfo_tom_timestamp
netdev2_tom_time_comp
slurm2_tom_time_comp
vmstat_tom_job_comp_time
vmstat_tom_timestamp
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Add Example"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-index --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --add --path /dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data -s meminfo -a instance
.fi
.RE
.SS "Remove Example"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-index --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --rem --path /dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data -s meminfo -a instance
.fi
.RE
.SS "Verify All Indices"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-index --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --verify
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_timestamp' ... OK
Verifying index 'netdev2_tom_time_comp' ... OK
Verifying index 'slurm2_tom_time_comp' ... OK
Verifying index 'vmstat_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
Verifying index 'vmstat_tom_timestamp' ... OK
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Verify A Single Index"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-index --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --verify --index  meminfo_tom_job_comp_time
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
.fi
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7),
