.\" Man page for sos-part
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "17 Mar 2023" "v6" "sos-part man page"

.SH NAME
sos-part \- Manage SOS partitions

.SH SYNOPSIS
sos-part [OPTION...] [NAME]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBsos-part\fR command is used to manage SOS partitions. Partitions
are collections of structured files that contain SOS objects. The files
that comprise a partition exist in a common subdirectory in a local
filesystem.
.PP
Partitions exist separately from a container and may be \fIattached\fR
to zero or more containers. When \fIattached\fR the partition is
included in container object query and object index insertion.
.PP
.SS "Querying Partitions"
.PP
The set of partitions that are attached to a container may be queried
with the --query when combined with the --cont option. If the --cont
option is not specified, the --query must include the --path option to
specify the filesystem path to the partition.
.IP "\fB--fmt\fR" 1c
Specifies the desired output format of the query data: \fIjson\fR or
\fItable\fR (default).
.SS "Creating Partitions"
.PP
Partitions are created with the --create option. After creation, the
partition exists, but is not part of any container. The --attach option
is used to \fIattach\fR the partition to one or more containers.
.PP
A container maintains a \fIstate\fR that informs the container about
how the partition should be treated. The container partition \fIstate\fR
is one of \fIPRIMARY, ACTIVE\fR, or \fIOFFLINE\fR. Only one partition
in the \fBcontainer\fR can be in the \fIPRIMARY\fR state. A partition
in this state is the default partition for object insertion and is
included in object query requests.
.PP
A partition in the \fIACTIVE\fR state included in object queries and
can be the target of object insertion if the application so chooses on
an object by object basis.
.PP
A partition in the \fIOFFLINE\fR state is present in the container but
cannot be the target of object insertion and is not included in object
queries.
.PP
.IP "\fB--mode MODE\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBOCTAL\fR parmission bits to apply for partition access.
See the open(3) system call for a description of these bits.
.IP "\fB--user NAME\fR" 1c
Specifies the user \fBUSER\fR that owns the partition. This \fBUSER\fR
must exist on the system.
.IP "\fB--group NAME\fR" 1c
Specifies the group \fBGROUP\fR that owns the partition. This \fBGROUP\fR
must exist on the system.
.IP "\fB--desc DESC\fR" 1c
Specifies a description string that will be used to annotate the
partition. The value does not affect the behavior of the partition but
is intended to provided administrators information on the contents of
the partition.
.SS "Attaching Partitions"
.PP
Partitions are attached to a container with the --attach option.  The
initial state of the partition is \fIOFFLINE\fR. See the --state
option for instruction on how to make the new partition \fIACTIVE\fR
or \fIPRIMARY\fR.
.PP
.IP "\fB--attach\fR" 1c
Requests that a partition be attached to a container. The initial state
of the partition is \fIOFFLINE\fR.
.IP "\fB--cont PATH\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPATH\fR to the container to which the partition will
be attached.
.IP "\fB--path PATH\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPATH\fR to the partition to attach.
.PP
.SS "Setting Partition State"
.PP
Set the state of a partitions in a container to ono of \fIPRIMARY\fR,
\fIACTIVE\fR, or \fIOFFLINE\fR.
.PP
.IP "\fB--state STATE-NAME\fR" 1c
Specifies the state for the partition in the container. The
\fBSTATE-NAME\fR is one of \fIPRIMARY\fR, \fIACTIVE\fR, or
\fIOFFLINE\fR.
.IP "\fB--cont PATH\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPATH\fR to the container containing the partition.
.IP "\fB--name PART-NAME\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPART-NAME\fR in the container that refers to the
partition.
.PP
.SS "Detaching Partitions"
.PP
Partions can be \fIdetached\fR from a container when the data they
contain is no longer need. Detaching a partition does not remove
the partition files or any data from the partition.
.PP
The \fIPRIMARY\fR partition in a container cannot be removed.
.IP "\fB--detach\fR" 1c
Requests that a partition be detached from a container.
.IP "\fB--cont PATH\fR" 1c
Specifies the \fBPATH\fR to the container from which the partition will
be removed.
.IP "\fB--name PART-NAME\fR" 1c
Specifies the partition name to detach from the container.

.IP "\fB--set\fR" 1c
.IP "\fB--remap-schema\fR" 1c
.IP "\fB--show-schema\fR" 1c
.IP "\fB--reindex\fR" 1c
.IP "\fB--reindex-status-count\fR" 1c
.IP "\fB--verbose\fR" 1c
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Query Example"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-part --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --query
meminfo_tom_job_comp_time
meminfo_tom_timestamp
netdev2_tom_time_comp
slurm2_tom_time_comp
vmstat_tom_job_comp_time
vmstat_tom_timestamp
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Verify All Indices"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-part --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --verify
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_timestamp' ... OK
Verifying index 'netdev2_tom_time_comp' ... OK
Verifying index 'slurm2_tom_time_comp' ... OK
Verifying index 'vmstat_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
Verifying index 'vmstat_tom_timestamp' ... OK
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Verify A Single Index"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
$ sos-part --path=/dev/shm/SOS/ldms_data --verify --index  meminfo_tom_job_comp_time
Verifying index 'meminfo_tom_job_comp_time' ... OK
.fi
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7),
